[Music]
we spend a third of our lives doing it
yet we still don't completely understand
this bizarre ritual we carried out each
night you lie down your body goes
unconscious you see the weirdest
pictures in your head and then wake up
only to repeat the whole process the
next day sleep is funny and here's the
proof like I said you spend a third of
your life off in dreamland
that's about 25 years if you were doing
the math we also spend about seven years
of our lifetime trying to fall asleep
everybody thinks you need eight hours of
shut-eye each night but your sleep hour
requirement changes throughout your life
children need 10 to 12 hours teens need
8 to 11
adults 7 to 8 hours and seniors are fine
with six to seven hours now good sleep
is necessary for effective work and
productivity but good doesn't
necessarily mean law some famous
historical figures slept very little
from two to four hours and this didn't
prevent them from doing great things
da Vinci Franklin Tesla Churchill and
that's not all
there's a sleep you tation that allows a
person to sleep just 2 to 6 hours and
not experience any side effects now if
you have a dog or cat then you might
have noticed that they make funny sounds
while they're sleeping yes they do dream
and experts aren't quite sure why or
what they say my dog Riley even barks in
his sleep temperature is a critical part
of sleep and possibly dreams if your
room is too cold or hot it can trigger
nightmares like you're in a cramped
space or a fire some great discoveries
were found thanks to dreams for example
Mendeleev created the periodic table
after he dreamed about it this happens
because our brain processes and analyzes
all the events we experience throughout
the day many experts believe this is why
we dream in the first place by the way I
love hearing dream stories
what's one dream you remember the most
or maybe have on a regular basis let me
know down in the comments
and on to that weird sudden twitch your
body might do as you're falling asleep
this happens because the brain sends
impulses to the muscles it's called a
hypnic jerk but why does the brain do it
nobody knows for sure our brain shuts
off all our muscles when we sleep this
is so that you don't run away in real
life as you're dreaming about running
away from some pursuer but the brain
doesn't shut off the eye muscles which
is why your eyes can move and they do
during the deepest part of sleep a stage
called REM or rapid eye movement but
what if your brain wakes up and your
body muscles are still disabled this
condition is called sleep paralysis many
people have experienced it at least once
in their life and those same people say
it's far from pleasant sleep and reality
are mixed in this state and individuals
can't see hallucinations babies dream in
the womb but there are no visual images
in these dreams only tactile and
auditory sensations
our spine relaxes and stretches when we
sleep meaning you can be a wee bit
taller in the morning than in the
evening people sleep under blankets not
only for warmth though that does help
it's also psychological we relax better
thank to the blankets touch even if it's
heavy that slightest bit of pressure on
our bodies soothes the nervous system
much like a hug we also feel more
protected when we sleep under the covers
a body out in the open makes a person
feel uncomfortable and vulnerable
especially when you're about to let your
guard down and go to sleep and well the
blanket thing is just a custom even if
you don't feel like you need it
it feels weird to sleep without it Japan
and South Korea get the least sleep on
earth less than six hours New Zealand
gets the most a whopping eight hours one
of the few places getting the
recommended amount
college students might not believe me
but pulling all-nighters cramming for an
exam will help your grade if you're
gonna do that do it a couple of days
before the big test day the night before
get good sleep it helps you retain
learned information nobody knows for
sure what causes deja vu one of the
theories is associated with sleep even
though it translates from French as
already seen you likely dream something
but forgot about it by the morning then
in reality you see those events that are
a bit like The Forgotten dream have you
ever had deja vu
a lot of animals like horses and zebras
sleep while standing their body has
evolved to pull this off so they can run
away from danger at any moment some
birds the albatross as an example
can't sleep while flying there's a whole
laundry list of animals dolphins
manatees penguins and crocodiles to name
a few that sleep with one eye open it's
possible because half of their brains
are working and watching the situation
around while the other half sleeps some
people not only snore during sleep but
can also grind Nash or clench their
teeth this is called bruxism like a lot
of things connected to the world of
sleep nobody knows the exact causes of
this phenomenon sleep is as vital to
humans as food and water are a healthy
person will live longer without food
than without sleep it seems obvious that
we need to sleep so that all our body's
bits can refresh themselves but no one
has fully figured out all the effects
sleep has on the body only that we need
it and we don't do well at all without
it one thing's for sure our body
accumulates energy during sleep if you
don't sleep for a long time then the
body looks for this energy in food not
surprisingly lack of sleep often leads
to weight gain sleepwalking is another
mystery we haven't figured out yet but
there are plenty of misconceptions
surrounding it you might imagine a
sleepwalker with our arms extended out
in front of them like a zombie but
that's just not the case you often can't
even recognize if a person is
sleepwalking
and waking a sleepwalker won't give them
a heart attack but it probably will give
them a shock and they might try to fight
you it's much better to gently guide a
sleepwalker back to bed without waking
them if you can many people claim that
they don't dream at all but they likely
just forget the dreams they do have if
you want to remember your dreams then
put a notebook or a voice recorder next
to the bed as soon as you wake up
immediately get to writing or recording
the first 90 seconds after waking up are
ideal it might take some practice but
you will start remembering more and more
of your bizarre brain movies if you do
remember your dreams how many do you
think you have a night one big long epic
movie nope
it's more like four to six of them each
night and your dreams get longer
throughout the night
it's the final one you're probably
recalling before there were alarm clocks
people had all kinds of ways to wake up
some got up with the Sun at the crack of
dawn others depended on their rooster to
wake them and in more populated areas it
was thanks to the ringing of the city
tower there was also a special
profession called a knocker upper this
probably not very popular fella would
walk among houses in the morning and
knock on bedroom windows to wake people
up for work
lullabies how do they work on babies so
well well imagine you're a baby again
you've had a busy day discovering new
things in this world all kinds of smells
sounds materials the day you found your
toes it was a particularly busy one it's
hard to fall asleep at the end of the
day when your brain is struggling to
analyze such a massive storm of new
information but when you hear a lullaby
your brain can concentrate on one thing
that soothing hypnotic voice your head
clears you feel at peace and sleep soon
follows on that note I'm getting kind of
sleepy myself
hey wake up huh if you learned something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life